AAAI papers

Andrea Loreggia, Horst Samulowitz, Yuri Malitsky, Vijay Saraswat "Deep
Learning for Algorithm Portfolios", AAAI 2016.  

Danny Munera, Daniel Diaz, Salvador Abreu, Francesca Rossi, Vijay
Saraswat, Philippe Codognet,  "Solving Hard Stable Matching Problems
via Local Search and Cooperative Parallelization", AAAI 2015.

Olivier Raiman, Johan de Kleer, Vijay Saraswat, Mark Shirley
"Characterizing Non-intermittent faults", AAAI 1991

Vijay Saraswat "CP as a general-purpose constraint-language", AAAI 1987.

RELATED PAPERS

Cristina Cornelio, Andrea Loreggia, Vijay Saraswat "Logical
Conditional Preference Theories", MPREF workshop, IJCAI 2015. 

Umberto Grandi, Andrea Loreggia, Francesca Rossi and Vijay Saraswat. A
Borda Count for Collective Sentiment Analysis. Annals of Mathematics
and Artificial Intelligence, special issue on ``Preferences and
Computational Social Choice'', 2015. 

Parallel Combinatorial Optimization with Decision Diagrams
David Bergman, Andre Cire, Ashish Sabharwal, Horst Samulowitz, Vijay
Saraswat, Willem-Jan van Hoeve (2014)  CPAIOR-2014. 11th International
Conference on Integration of AI and OR Techniques in Constraint
Programming, Cork, Ireland, May 2014.  

Umberto Grandi, Andrea Loreggia, Francesca Rossi and Vijay
Saraswat. From Sentiment Analysis to Preference Aggregation. In
Proceedings of the 2014 International Symposium on Artificial
Intelligence and Mathematics (ISAIM-2014), 2014.  

SatX10: A Scalable Plug&Play Parallel SAT Framework 
Bard Bloom, David Grove, Benjamin Herta, Vijay Saraswat, Ashish
Sabharwal, and Horst Samulowitz (2012).  Published at Proceedings of
the 15th International Conference on Theory and Applications of
Satisfiability Testing (SAT 2012)   

Introduction. (Mary Dalrymple, Fernando Pereira, John Lamping, Vijay
Saraswat) In \textit{Semantics And Syntax in Lexical Functional
Grammar: The Resource Logic Approach} edited by Mary Dalrymple. The
MIT Press, 1999. 

LFG qua Concurrent Constraint Programming. (Vijay Saraswat) In
    \textit{ Semantics And Syntax in Lexical Functional Grammar: The
    Resource Logic Approach} edited by Mary Dalrymple. The MIT Press, 1999.

Relating Resource-based semantics to categorial semantics. (Mary
    Dalrymple, Vineet Gupta, John Lamping, and Vijay Saraswat) In
   \textit{ Semantics And Syntax in Lexical Functional Grammar: The Resource
    Logic Approach} edited by Mary Dalrymple. The MIT Press, 1999.

A Deductive Account of Quantification in LFG.  (Mary
    Dalrymple, John Lamping, Fernando Pereira, and Vijay
    Saraswat) In \textit{ Quantifiers, Deduction, and Context}, ed.\
    Makoto Kanazawa, Christopher J.~Pi\~{n}\'{o}n, and Henriette
    de~Swart.  Stanford, California: Center for the Study of
    Language and Information.  1996. 

Andrew Kehler, Mary Dalrymple, John Lamping, and Vijay Saraswat
    The Semantics of Resource Sharing in Lexical-Functional Grammar.  
    Proceedings of the 1995 Meeting of the
    European Chapter of the Association for Computational
    Linguistics, Dublin, Ireland. March 1995.

Yumi Iwasaki, Adam Farquhar, Vijay Saraswat, Daniel Bobrow, Vineet Gupta
Modeling time in hybrid systems: How fast is "instantaneous"? IJCAI 1995

Vineet Gupta and Vijay Saraswat and Peter Struss, ``A model
  of a photocopier paper path'', Proceedings of the 2nd IJCAI
  Workshop on Engineering Problems for Qualitative Reasoning,
  August 1995.

Hao-Chi Wong and Markus P.J. Fromherz and Vineet Gupta and Vijay
  A. Saraswat. ``Control-based programming of electro-mechanical
  controllers.'' Proceedings of the IJCAI Workshop on Executable
  Temporal Logics, Montreal, August 1995.

Markus Fromherz and Vijay Saraswat   ``Model-based
  computing: using concurrent constraint programming for modeling
  and model compilation'', U. Montanari  and F. Rossi (ed.)
  Principles and Practices of Constraint Programming, CP'95,
  Springer-Verlag, LNCS 976, Sep 1995, pp. 629--635. 
  
Markus Fromherz and Vijay Saraswat ``Model-based
  computing: constructing constraint-based software for
  electro-mechanical systems'' Practical Applications of
  Constraint Technology, Paris, France, April 1995, pp. 63-66.

Markus Fromherz, David Bell, Daniel Bobrow, Brian
  Falkenhainer, Vijay Saraswat and Mark Shirley ``\textsc{ Rapper}:
  The Copier Modeling Project'', Working Papers of the Eight
  International Workshop on Qualitative Reasoning about physical
  systems'', pages 1-12, June 1994. 

Mary Dalrymple, John Lamping, Fernando Pereira, and Vijay Saraswat
    Intensional Verbs Without Type-Raising or Lexical Ambiguity.
    In Logic, Language and Computation, volume 1, ed. Jerry
    Seligman and Dag Westerstaahl. Stanford, California:
    Center for the Study of Language and Information.  1996.
    Also in Proceedings of the Conference on
    Information-Oriented Approaches to Logic, Language and
    Computation/Fourth Conference on Situation Theory and its 
    Applications, Saint Mary's College of California, Moraga,
    California. June 1994.

Olivier Raiman, Johan de Kleer, Vijay Saraswat "Critical Reasoning",
IJCAI 1993 

Dalrymple, Mary, John Lamping, and Vijay Saraswat. 
    LFG semantics via constraints. In Proceedings of the Sixth
    Meeting of the European ACL, University of Utrecht, April.
    European Chapter of the Association for Computational
    Linguistics, 1993.
    
Dalrymple, Mary, Angie Hinrichs, John Lamping, and Vijay Saraswat.
    The resource logic of complex predicate interpretation.
    In Proceedings of the 1993 Republic of China Computational
    Linguistics Conference (ROCLING), Hsitou National Park,
    Taiwan, September. Computational Linguistics Society of R.O.C.

P. Codognet and V. Saraswat, ``Abduction in Concurrent
  Constraint Languages'', Proceedings of the First Compulog Network
  meeting on Logic Programming and Artificial Intelligence, London,
  U.K., 1992.

Saraswat, V.A. and de Kleer, J. and Raimon, O.
  ``Contributions to the theory of diagnosis'', International
  Workshop on Principles of Diagnosis, Stanford University, July
  1990.

