Wed Feb 01 06:24:31 EST 2017

X10 
  Doug Lea  (ok)
  David Grove (ok)
  Guy Blelloch
  Vivek Sarkar

CCP

  Seif Haridi   (ok)
  Radha Jagadeesan (ok)
  Prakash Panangaden (ok)
  Catuscia Palamidessi (ok)

Natural language work

  Johan de Kleer (ok)
  Fernando Pereira (ok)
  Mary Dalrymple (ok)


U California

IIT professor positions

---
Wrote to:
  USC -- Paul Rosenbloom
  Cornell Tech -- Dan Huttenlocher, Greg Morisset
  U Penn -- Alur
  Berkeley -- Malik
  SRI -- Pat Lincoln 

Talked to:
  Martin Rinard (he will write if needed).

  Sridhar Mahadevan

Talked /wrote for info about positions

Vineet -- dinner 5p or after Tue.
Katherine -- dinner Wed.
(Thu open)

Actions: 
* Johan
* Ron

Alexa McDonald -- IBM Res HR for Karasick
Leadership team -- Rajesh Nishthala .. FB

senior technical contributors.

Applications to:
 Facebook -- Kanika Ahuja (recruiter) ... Maged Michael, Rajesh Nishthala, Peter O'Hearn

 Apple -- Russ Salakhutdinov

 Uber  -- ?

 Google 
  -- somebody in NY? Igor, David , John Field
  -- Vineet 

 Bloomberg -- Anju

 Elemental Cognition -- David Ferucci

To do: 
 American Express -- Amol Ghoting

------- drafts of message to Arvind
I write to you in extraordinary circumstances.

Eight months ago in May, Karasick took over Cognitive Computing. He made Lisa Amini the Director for Knowledge & Reasoning, and asked me to  report to Michael Witbrock, a new hire from Cyc with development experience but limited research experience. I was reluctant, knowing Lisa's managerial shortcomings. He said I would be part of the K&R leadership team, and that Witbrock's group would work to implement my research vision for professional assistants.  

That has not happened.  

Lisa very soon reverted to her old Directorial, top-down, tactical decision-making style with highy controlled information flows.  The ground-breaking platform we need to build, bets we need to make, strategic thinking we neeed to deploy -- cannot be done when the director insists on making decisions based on her own limited understanding of the subject, without leveraging her senior people.

We clashed repeatedly. It even came to pass that in the beginning of October, I unilaterally took over the Geico reasoning project because I saw her decision-making leading the team in a disastrous direction. I worked directly with John Gunnels and team, designed the technical approach, wrote a lot of code and worked with the rest of the team to pull together a working semantic parsing system ("Rainy Day"). We demoed to Karasick before Christmas -- and he (and even Lisa) complimented us on the work and urged us to continue.

After the demo, I told Karasick that it was a mistake to have me reporting into Lisa's organization. By that time, I had also realized that there was a deep line of attack -- based on work coming out of U Edinburgh and in part on work I did at PARC 25 years ago -- that would allow us to leverage unsupervised techniques to extract deep structure (e.g. rules and constraints) from natural language text. I have worked intensively over the last month to flesh this out ... I know now exactly what to  build. 

I proposed to Karasick that I have a small team of people to work on this big-impact longer-term project, reporting to him. 

Karasick has gone silent on me. 

In the light of these circumstances, I find it impossible to continue as part of Karasick's organization. 

I would like to request a transfer to Nagui's team with immediate effect. 
With Deepak / Horst / Anton, there is a lot of need for the kind of work in reasoning and natural language understanding that I do. Nagui interviewed me in 2003 when I came to IBM Research and wanted me to join his team -- I think the time has come now. 

It seems that Lisa has determined that I need to be placed on an "action plan". I ask if you can review this decision, and if it makes sense, approve my transfer to Nagui and let him manage this. 

It is clear to me now that Karasick's attempt at "a leadership team" 

But in an extraordinary turn of events, last Friday Witbrock started insisting that I must have an "obligatory" performance feedback meeting with him on Friday, using words in person to me that I found shocking and threatening. 

 -- but in the meantime Lisa has systematically cut me out of all information flows, and taken on presentation resposibilities to external customers that I had hitherto. 

It was clear to me that 

Karasick has gone silent







This style does not work for me. I have a deep understanding of this space (reasoning, natural language semantics and what is needed for legal reasoning) and cannot work at *her* rate and pace of understanding -- particularly when the crying need of the hour is for us to build a ground-breaking platform in (compliance) reasoning that requires deep insights and strategic thinking. 

I care about doing great science, and building real systems that work and give us an edge. 

Indeed her closed decision-making and information-controlling style has not worked in the past with many other senior researchers who, in some cases, eventually left the company. 

The crying need for IBM Research is to recapture our leadership in AI,
focus on big AI goals of central interest to the company, and deliver
pioneering research results that help build a reputation that attracts
great people here. This has been the big thrust of my work for the
last year. 

This cannot be done through tactical decision making with people who
have a neophyte's understanding of the underlying research issues. 


Matters reached such a pass that in early October I unilaterally took
over a Reasoning project that she had asked John Gunnels to lead. 


This style does not work for senior technical leaders 
with who she has
consistently had difficulties in the past. We clashed repeatedly on my
desire to focus now on strategic research, building up a long-term
shared view of research goals, and not planning our work based on the
immediate BD development goals. 

Witbrock is treading water with his group with no technical
accomplishments since May.  

I was

controlling, tactical style 


I was reluctant to do this since I already had experienced
Lisa's controlling, closed minded, tactical management style. Karasick
said I would be part of the leadership team for Lisa's Knowledge &
Reasoning directorate, that Witbrock's group would implement my
research vision for profession-quality assistants. 

Lisa does not have a deep understanding of AI or a strategic
vision. She does not have the skills to learn from senior technical
leaders, or rely on their judgement and technical leadership. 
I butted heads with her repeatedly -- my repeated asks for long-term
research plans, for strategic thinking went nowhere. 


Very poor organizational skills. Running habitually late, important
tasks left undone, no strategic view of where we are headed. 

and 


I was reluctant to do this since I alread 


Karasick said "trust me". 

Tue Feb 07 15:48:30 EST 2017

there are open positions .. grow to 21/23 by the end of the year
4 groups
-- NLP infrastructure for the entire company
millions of tweets, news stoires, govt docs, analysts reports

NLP infastructure... uniform way of oteknizing in any lang, syntatically parsing...
dependency parsing ...> home cooking..
universal dependendies.

-- platform ... dep parse here Michael Collins students building out 
now neural nets, not CRF based depdnency parsing
now trying to improve perf

-- extraction from financial and econimic ... tables / text (subsecond, msec latency to process an entire release, pullint ouf 
99.5% precision, as much recall as possible.. one group table, one group text

merge and acquire deal...

-- classifiation tasks on text analytics. neural nets and other techniques for 
use NNs as much as possible...
... libraries..choose a few.. 100+ people pracicing ML...now looking at a few 

one location ... three aisles behind.. 5 to an aisle..

4 aisles.

high precision, very fast, low recall then go to high

what do clients want to see... bloomberg has a relationship with clients.
get to know product, maintenance is taking up time..this is a good candidate for automation.

u can suggest... budget planning session, roadmap for next year... things broken down quarter to quarter. 

starting point -- other peoples's paper. 

hired people coming from very high reputed lasb.s know what works and what is not.

data distributesions are different..tweak to make things work...not geared towards precision.

infrastructure / sw engg practices are v good. always been low latency, high fault toeralnce, distributed computing. just happens magically. 

how 
Tensor Flow

 Dynet

common API

Other things...>
....> 
 Data Science team ... search and relevance.
 machine learning that deals with a variety of products.

 higher analysis built on top of NL processing.

sit in thew news domain..but also Bloomberg CTO's office. reusable across the company.

platform i discussed CTO's office...
governance
litigation - BLaw
analyst reports -- that dont fall under news

Bloomberg also puts out lot of news stories
also aggregate content

both aggregated...

(a) pay a lot of thought to ....product first/last, lot of coding..s/w engg position...
C++ / python (Fortran and C libraries) code that PK... C++, python, Java, Spark, Apache

(b) 

-----------
David McQueeney 
The technical term is "performance improvement plan". Maybe Lisa
deliberately chose "action plan" as a different term.


performane problem --- strategic decision turns into a peformance problem

generalized experience:

  v common for sr mgr and execs ... someone in the group with
  tremendous asset, deep intellect, unique knowledge, someone you
  respect deeply.

  if there is a criticism with that person's performance, there is a
  tendency to be obtuse with the person 

  rather than clear... u feel guilty criticizing someone u admire .. u
  r not on the same train we r on.. 

  we need u to get on the train ...or u do somethign else..

  ... people dont get to the second, because they dont want to lose u.

  Dave: too nice. not ready to have heads roll. Karasick is fairly
  clear almost to the point of being blunt. 

  there is a serious problem here -- agenda is different from what u
  want to pursue.. it may be hard for them to come out to tell u
  because they respect u.

  i have made that mistake before... when u finally have an honest
  convo, they 

my history and reputation is incredible... 

it would make Lisa hesitate. (not Karasick.)
that is why there might be a fog.

cannot accomplish anything till u find out what is the issue.

here is the problem. very bad management practice... exporting a
problem to someone else is very bad practice. because the problem is
likely to repeat itself.

v poor mgmt practice to export.

Michael and Lisa -- lets hammer this home lets get it straightened
out.

-- we are all big enought to air our opinions.
-- doing to change the day.

MSK will have an honest convo.
that will be exactly the right thing to do.

Alexa --
employee -- goes in establish goals, update at any time in the
process.

once a quarter ... employee and mgmt team are connecting...goals are
active etc. 

connecting with them, aligned, course correction should happen if
necessary. running into blockers.

try not to make it formal. it is a way for employee and mgmt team to
keep aligned.

opportunity for employee and mgmt team to reflect on.. across five
dimensions.

unlike PBC process, these are dev conversations. get feedback,
holistic f/b, also from peers. as well as clients u support and work
with. all that is taken into account when communicating ur evaluation.

face to face, or over the phone ... great opportunity to get synced up
and aligned. 

manager completes 
ratings across all five
and summary paragraph... 
then manager verbally communicates.
then send written.

checkpoint -- on going, evergreen f/b tool.

-- i am not supposed to get anything in writing, until i have a convo
   with the manager. allow us to share ideas, get alignment, what went
   well, and set the course for this year for success.

action plan...> 

  performance improvement plan.

  there is misalignment. whatever i am doing is not up to what they
  think needs to be delivered.

part of this u can create an action plan or a performance improvement
plan

  that structured feedback... why are their gaps between the two of u.

  not just the execution, but how you interact with others and the
  behaviors.

  action plan ... 

  the two of u to connect.

  Alexa: I believe Lisa is using it informally.

  and my willingess

  be open to it -- see what they have to say. 

  what ownership or what actions ... what would i do or not do.

treat people with respect. open to feedback. checkpoint process is
about. also tell you when we have a performance challenge..from a
delivery perspective or a behavioral challenge.  

if it is a formal performance improvement plan ... there will be a
time bound around it.

it could be 30 or 60 days. we dont do 90 any more.

 -- complete the checkpoint process.
    get that resolved. here what they have to say.

    see what the next steps aer.

 -- then set up a technical meeting.

what are my options

  - stay and make this work

  - if they go into a PiP .... cannot go to another group. stay with
    the group, or ask the group if they would be open to transfering
    to another team.

  - leave IBM
 
... 2-3 and 4-5


-------------------------------
Calendar 8 Feb
2p PT: Dave Ferucci will call my cell.

---

Elemental Cognition is completely separate being financed by
Bridgewater Associates.

Separate effort. Hosted at Bridgewater.

Dave arrived at Bridgewater Associates. 

2016 -- wanted to work on what his passion was.

Bridgewater proposed a deal. That he stay there to help finish the
project. They would enable him to create a new project, completely
independent, intellectual property etc. EC started in this way. 

there is no commercial product we are going to build, revenues, #
users. 

ultimate objective is not to be a unicorn. to do something that nobody
thinks is possible to do. push AI research. 

same spirit that Jeopardy ran. It was possible to do things that we
didnt believe was possible. Research agenda for AI. 

Next steps in AI. 

