Abstract of Statement of Research Interest

I want to settle down as systems faculty, building (through
Internet-wide open source collaboration) mass computing systems intended
to be used by millions of people, and using these to explore fundamental
social, systems and theoretical issues in the design of provably secure
globally distributed systems. In particular, I expect the systems I
build to fundamentally deepen and enrich our understanding of identity,
privacy, security, property rights, exchange, ownership, governance, and
agents (bots) in cyberspace. I expect to build them using advanced
computational techniques such as proof-carrying code and object
accessibility reasoning as discussed in our STOC 2000 paper,  the work
of Kearns et al and others on MOO bots using learning and natural
language interaction, work on multimodal (speech and visual) interfaces
etc. Possibly there is some programming language work involved (e.g.
based on E) -- though only if I can be convinced that this is going to
be a very attractive approach to building provably secure globally
distributed systems.

My initial target "customer segment" for such work is likely to continue
to be middle and high schools across the world -- providing
infrastructure to build collaborative, networked school-based,
locally-governed communities. Creating open source systems is critical
to my approach -- I want to foster an approach where there are a large
number of developers of such systems (e.g. students, teachers in
school), and there is a framework through which they can share and reuse
their work.

As much as I want to contribute personally to this area, I want to
establish this area as a significant academic research area in its own
right. And that means collaborating widely with systems, theoretical
computer science and social science (political science/governmental
studies/anthropology) faculty, in this country, and globally ... and
also getting a book out in the next 1-5 years about the basic ideas.

